All right, so
now we're gonna reach the point,
kinda the culmination
of this entire section.
Let's do the empirical testing for,
what are we using in JavaScript?
We're gonna find out now,
what is those brackets in JavaScript?
Does anyone have a guess what it is?
>> It's just something that looks
interesting, you put on the wall.
>> It just looks interesting?
Yeah, it is interesting, I accept that,
interesting is part one.
Frustrating?
Could be.
No guesses?
>> Is it an ArrayList?
>> ArrayList, yeah.
>> ArrayList, great guess.
I'll tell you if you're right or wrong
cuz we're gonna find out empirically.
So I did write this little,
I didn't know where to put it so
I just put it right in this thing, so
you can even follow along if you want to.
All we're gonna do here is we're
gonna simply create an array, right?
It's just a number array.
I'm gonna be able to measure a function,
we're measuring in milliseconds,
we don't really care,
it's not super precise.
We just wanna get a gauge of how fast or
how slow things are, right?
So no hardcore testing here.
So I create a function that simply
will unshift a a certain amount of
times, right?
Unshift in JavaScript,
remember that's adding to a list.
Thank you, Brendan, for that one.
Shift, of course is removing from
the beginning of the list, so
we're just gonna do that amount of times.
We have push, exact same thing,
pop, exact same thing.
So hopefully we all see exactly how
that works, very, very simple functions,
just push, pop, shift,
unshift a number amount of times.
Lastly, we're gonna have
get based on index.
So just in case it is a linked
list underneath the hood,
if we were to get
progressively larger indices,
we should see a slowdown that keeps on,
we should see a linear slowdown, right?
So then I create this thing,
Just some higher order function nonsense.
I could push it, I can create something
that will just have the same function
that does, calls push with
the same count every time, right?
So I can call it over and over again, I
don't even know why I did it this way, but
it just feels like it was a great
way to do things at the time.
I can't remember what
code comes down below.
Lastly, we're gonna test with 10 elements,
100 elements, 1000, 10,000, 100,000,
1 million.
Whenever you're doing performance testing,
a little tip is you should always
do a stepladder type approach.
That way you can see how it grows.
You can really actually run, say,
a linear regression and say, hey,
this is kind of more what
I'm seeing right here.
It's not accurate,
it doesn't always work exactly, right?
So there you go.
So you can see for every test I'm gonna
do, I'm gonna push in the value and
then I'm going to do a get
at the last element.
So if indexing is linear,
we should see a slowdown as
the array gets bigger, correct?
Correct, right?
It should be 10x slower effectively
every single, 10x times some constant.
Pushing, exact same thing.
We're gonna push 1,000 items after
growing it to a certain length.
So first, we're gonna grow it to 10,
we're gonna grow to 100, we're gonna
grow to 1,000, 10,000, 100,000,
1 million, 10 million, and then at each
one of those points, push in 1,000 items.
If push is based on the amount
of items within the array,
we should theoretically see
a slowdown that happens, right?
It should be linearly getting
slower in every single step.
Same thing with pop, exact same item.
Same thing with unshift, and
the exact same thing with shift.
If any of these are linear-based as we
increase the size of our array by a factor
of 10, we should see a great
slowdown in any of these.
And so that way we can kinda test all the
operations, and at that point we should be
able to empirically know what
type of list are we using.
All right, let's do this source.
It's, I did it in TypeScript, npx ts-node.
[SOUND] So what do we see here?
Well, notice that get, it really didn't
matter the size of the array, right?
It was always super-duper fast.
Push didn't really matter,
pop didn't really matter.
Unshift, you'll notice it just got really,
really slow, we're not even done yet.
It just got horribly slow at some point.
And so what are we seeing here?
Well, we're seeing all these
effectively constant time operations,
and there we go, awesome.
And we're seeing shift and unshift grow.
It actually looks like it's effectively
a 30x growth or something like that, but
we'd call that a linear growth.
I would call that a linear growth
at that point, 10x the array,
something like 10x to
the time it took to run.
And so let's just write that out.
So if get is O(1), if push/pop is O(1),
and un/shift appears to be something
like O(n), we were correct in saying
it's probably an ArrayList, right?
That is effectively
what we're seeing here.
We're seeing instant access, we're seeing
instant pushing and popping at the end,
we're seeing linear shifting and
unshifting, or enqueue, dequeue.
And a reason of course, we can now
reason in our head the exact reason why.
Underneath the hood, what is happening?
0 to N, you're shifting over N elements,
however that many is.
I had 10 million at one point,
that should take a long time.
If I had to do that 1,000 times,
you can see it took multiple seconds
on my computer just to execute.
That's a real problem, right?
Right, so
hopefully this was actually a cool moment.
I was really hoping that this would kinda
culminate in a cool moment where we really
understand all the different
types of lists there are.
And then we can empirically look at
something in which we don't even know what
the execution is, but
we're able to suss out likely what
it actually is underneath the hood.
And so, was I correct in saying that what
if I had told you const a is not an array?
Yes, Morpheus, the answer is it is
definitely not, and it is an ArrayList,
awesome.
I hope everyone's awesome.
I always was very curious why they
didn't use a double-ended ring buffer,
I'm sure there's a great reason why.
I just don't know why, but
I'm sure there's a great reason
why that doesn't happen.
All right,
is there any questions at this point?
Cuz I think the next slide is actually,
yeah, anything unclear?
We're kind of ending the list section.
>> One question, the shift,
unshift was exponential, right?
>> I wouldn't put it as exponential,
I'd put it as linear.
>> Linear, yeah, sorry, linear, so-
>> Sorry, let me rephrase the question.
Shift and unshift was exponential,
no, it was linear, sorry,
keep going with the question just so.
>> It's a linear, right?
The shift and unshift, okay,
so what's the conclusion?
The question was, was that an array or
not, right, that question?
>> Yeah, was it an array or not?
It's not an array cuz it's curable.
You can push and pop, it actually has
a notion of an ending and a beginning.
Those are all very, very different
from what you would get with an array.
An array does not have a capacity versus
a length, an array is contiguous spot of
memory, or a static array is
what people often refer to them.
They refer to a length or
ArrayList as dynamic arrays,
things in which you have these extra
operations on top of it to be able to
kind of accordion it
according to what you need.
>> It's not an array, but what can it be?
>> It's an ArrayList.
>> ArrayList.
>> Yes, and
the kicker obviously is this right here.
So for those that don't know, he asked,
if it's not an array, what is it?
It's an ArrayList because we do get
all these sweet operations, but
we don't get this.
But it does provide growing,
it does provide the ability to push and
pop at the end, it's keeping track of
a lot of extra things underneath the hood.
Therefore, you can just call this
is a dynamic array or an ArrayList.
>> What about slice?
>> Slice, well,
slice is just a copy, right?
You might be trying to say splice,
that might be the confusion here.
So slice is, effectively when you do
a slice on an array, and you're doing
it from, say i to j, you're just saying
I wanna copy from here to here, right?
Starting at i up into,
but not including j.
So that's effectively just
like a mem copy, right?
So that's a linear operation, all it's
gonna do is just take that amount of
memory, copy it to a new location,
hand it to you, there you go.
And so if you're using
an ArrayList underneath the hood,
you could effectively copy that,
you could create a copy method, right?
Hey, create a new array, copy all my
elements in, and then take all my state,
and there you go.
We have two lists, two separate copies,
and now you can adjust them, right?
So that would be a slice.
>> Is there a way it's not a copy,
where it's a slice and it's-
>> Great question.
Actually this, I made a YouTube
video just recently, by the way,
subscribe to my YouTube,
I'm almost at 100,000 subs, my God!
No, anyways, sorry, hit that
notification bell, I've never, okay,
I've never said that.
But there is actually this
one thing that I really hate,
I've made a video on it before, is that
there is actually these things that are,
it depends on what you mean by a copy.
And so let's look at this.
So if I go const a = new Uint8Array,
and let's create a 10 big, right?
And then go a[0] equal, oops, equals 5,
a[1 ]= 5, a[2] = 69 for the memes,
there we go, we've appropriately
done all the memeing, there we go.
So now, if we do this and
we go const b = a.slice,
say (0, 5), and I go b[3] = 5,
if I look back at a,
notice that 3 is not 5.
We have done a deep copy, if you will,
of the data, does that make sense?
Now, here's where things get great.
Const, let's call it a buf,
equals Buffer.alloc,
say (5), we're gonna create a buffer,
this is a node item.
Here's the best part about it, though.
Instanceof Uint8Array, it is a Uint8Array.
So by even TypeScript definition,
it's a Uint8Array, correct?
Now we can go like this.
Buf., I think it's set,
let's see, what is it?
My goodness, what are you?
Is it write?
I always forget these things
off top my head, what are you?
There we go, writeUint8, there we go.
Let's writeUint8 at position (0,
5), and then it's gonna say this,
a the value offset range,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I had it backwards, of course,
write value 5, offset 0.
Node has always managed to be
backwards on all the APIs, I swear.
If we write out a buffer right now,
you'll see it has 5 in that
first position, awesome.
So let's do the exact same experiment,
const buf2 =buf.slice(0,
5), and go buf2.write.
Let's go like this, we can go,
there we go, and then just put a buf.2, so
I'm gonna go buf.2, let's write it
at offset 3, and if I look at buf.1,
what just happened?
Buf.1 was, so
this is actually a shallow slice.
So buffers in Node are shallow sliced,
meaning that they just simply have offsets
within this contiguous memory space in
which they're actually just saying,
hey, I exist between these two places.
And so when you say, hey, give me a slice,
I just simply adjust the indices, and
then still point to the same piece
of memory underneath the hood.
Now, obviously, the danger of course,
is where I showed you the whole,
where are you?
Where did I do that?
The instanceof, right?
Wherever that was, I don't even know
where that was, but it, for your APIs,
looks like a Uint8Array,
but it's a buffer.
So if you call it slice,
you're getting a shallow slice,
which means you could mutate data
you think you're not mutating.
So very, very dangerous,
very, very Node-like.
All right, there we go, so
hopefully that makes sense.
Slice, it can be linear if it's copy.
It obviously can be constant if it's
literally just pointing to new spots.
So buffer would be like,
you could effectively say buffer is a like
implementation of an ArrayList, right,
underneath the hood at
some contiguous buffer.
I'm sure even if we print out the array
buffer that's backing the buffer
underneath the hood, we'd actually
probably see a much larger one.
We might even see source code and other
stuff like that inside the array buffer.
Yeah?
>> Just a general comment,
I've seen quite a few people asking,
where would I apply this in my code, or
what are some typical examples
that you've run into?
For instance, you said you use x
data structure quite often, so?
>> Where would I actually
use these data structures?
I've said that I've used them,
so where would you use them?
I did give the example of say, if you're
doing any sort of log or flushing.
So flushing in general,
things in which you batch operations and
then wanna release a bunch of operations,
you're using some sort of data
structure underneath the hood, and you're
gonna wanna be efficient with it, right?
You don't want something
that has a linear add or
remove time if you're not
flushing the entire thing.
So you could imagine that could
be really bad for a service.
You tend to run into these things
a lot more on the back end than you do
the front end.
You tend to run into them on the front
end when you're writing a library.
So if you look at I'm sure the react code,
if you look at any code,
I am positive you'll see
data structures just around.
Because they're trying to keep
track of a bunch of state, and
they're trying to be as
efficient as possible.
So they need to know all these
different things, they need to do that.
So I tend to run to it a bunch
in library development.
When I did a caching layer at Netflix for
the TV, for
JavaScript, I did a bunch of trees,
linked lists, and maps, right?
You just have to be able to do all these
things because that's what you just had to
be able to do those, because at that point
we had to be as efficient as possible.
So everything needs to be O(1),
if possible, we cannot interrupt the UI.
And so that was just a part of it,
and it's a very,
very interesting kind of concept.
So that's where I tend to run into
it is more back end or library dev.
Never really, if you're just
writing a UI component often,
you're not actually doing logic,
you're just kind of displaying logic or
you have very limited
interaction with logic.
And so therefore, it tends to be
a little bit more shallow on those.
>> When you're dealing with big data,
what is your go-to?
>> So I don't deal much with big data, I'm
not the best person to answer that one.
I use Hive,
Hive does a bunch of really sweet things.
And my Hive experience
is select star from.
[LAUGH]
>> Okay, okay, so just-
>> And then I eventually write some joins,
it can't compile, then I go to my data
scientist friend, go, help me, please.
I'm poor in Hive, help!
And then they help me and
then I get answers.
And so that's what I usually
do at Netflix at least, so.
But big data or often applications of
these principles over, say, a map and
reduce, you have consistent hashes, you
have to map things to specific computers
that we can run medians,
fasts, blah, blah.
They're all applications of these
algorithms but ran distributedly, and
that obviously is much harder.
Kafka is just a queue, but
it's a much more complicated queue.
And so now that you fundamentally
understand what a queue does,
you can imagine what Kafka does,
except where you have to somehow solve
this whole in order,
async multiple computer problem, right?
So it's just a distributed queue.
And so it does help you visualize what's
actually happening on the other side.
And I think it's good for you,
I think it's really good
to understand these things.